---
layout: post
title: Learning from Bloc to this point
---

I had done a fairly exhausted comparison of online "bootcamps" when I committed to making the career change.  Bloc fit everything I wanted and I was extremely interested in the biggest program they offered.  It seemed like a small investment in time and money for a large reward by way of increased earning potential.  Additionally, since I was coming into the field with no practical experience, taking a longer duration and increasing my first tool box was exactly what I was looking for.  Bloc offers a lot over its competition but their biggest selling point is the implementation of the mentor program.  

My very first Bloc experience was waiting up until midnight so I could get the first pick of the mentors, I was investing everything in this and I wanted to be sure I got the person I felt would be best suited to my needs.  You aren't allowed to window shop either, they all become available at a set time and you make your choice right then.  I refreshed my page often (it felt a lot like Christmas) until, BAM! there they were.  First thought was "that's a big list".  Much bigger than I expected. So big in fact that I had to quickly sketch up some criteria and begin cutting people who didn't meet them. They needed to be located in my time zone and be familiar with windows since I used a PC.  After that I started looking at experience, not just how much but where was it earned.  There is a wide range of mentors, some are previous Bloc graduates while others have had long careers as developers with varying back grounds.  I finally landed on Christine, she was my first choice on a short list and once it was locked in we were off and running!  They say you can change your mentor if things aren't working out, but I've had no need to even look into that.  Christine is my ride or die when it comes to programming, she knows when to push me, when to let me be, and when to help out.  This mentor thing is 100% they way learn this much complex information in a relatively short period of time.

The curriculum has been one of building a base of knowledge then expanding upon it.  I started with HTML and CSS.  Learned the basics of GitHub, which was hard to wrap my head around but now that I get it, is really cool.  Then JavaScript basics before it was time to put it all together and begin building a complex web application.   Once completed I refracted the entire thing using JQuery and did it again with AngularJS!.  I've only been doing this for a couple months already I have experience in languages that have real earning potential.  From there I began a new application where I created chat rooms using Firebase.  Each challenge requires you to use tools learned previously and then teaches you one more piece.  It can be wicked challenging at times, there are time when I walk away feeling like I accomplished exactly nothing.  The satisfaction of completing a complex checkpoint on the other hand is truly a "thrill of victory" moment.  To this point I have zero complaints other than I wish I had found Bloc a few years earlier.
