---
layout: post
title: Why I choose to become a developer
---
Like most everyone, I've spent many hours contemplating what I want to do when I grow up.  I'd say  that I probably spent more than most because I was still asking myself the same questions some short time after my 40th birthday. There is no doubt that I enjoyed the journey to that point, which I will touch on in a bit, but as I put on my tie and jacket to go to a job that I had grown to hate more I knew it was long past time to make a change.  Oh sure, I had hatched a little less than a million plans on how to get out of the service industry in the past, nothing ever came of them. This time it was different though, desperate times have finally called for desperate measures.  I was spending all my free time on the computer (which wasn't the usual part) looking for something else I could be qualified for interested in.  The best I had at that point was to go back to school for three years to get a cyber-security degree.

I was idly thumbing through my emails when I came across one a couple weeks old from my sister-in-law.  It was an article about a software bootcamp.  I briefly wondered why she had sent it to me, I've never expressed any interest in writing code and had never so much as mentioned it to her.  I read the article and while I wasn't interested in that particular camp a light bulb literally turned on inside my head like some soft of cartoon.  I have a LOT of friends who already write code for a living, hell, even my mother is a long time programmer.  My previous education, while not related to programming did give me a great set of tools with which to work.  I took a couple more weeks, but I knew right then that I had finally found my career.  

During those forced weeks of contemplation (forced because I was sure this was what I wanted) I came up with several compelling arguments for why software engineering was the perfect career choice for me.  After two decades in a very whimsical industry, job security was right up there at the top of my list.  They are estimating that in 5 years there will be a million more software engineering jobs than there are software engineers.  That means even if I'm terrible at my job (which will absolutely not be the case) there will still be a job out there.  At my age, any new career needs to be something that I can still be capable at when I'm nearing 60 years of age, and this fits that to a T.  There's some potential of working from home and of course limited interaction, coming from a job where I've met millions of people in my life, reducing that sounds really good to me.  The last thing I will mention is earning potential.  Any career change would have to be able to quickly pay back the debt assumed from obtaining the tools (education) to complete that career while also help me catch up on my retirement fund.  A career as a software engineer checks every box, and some emphatically so.  It's a scary but exciting time!
