---
layout: post
title: Timebot: My first Open Source Project
<!-- feature-img: "img/bloc_jams_bg.jpg" -->
<!-- thumbnail-path: "https://d13yacurqjgara.cloudfront.net/users/3217/screenshots/2030966/blocjams_1x.png" -->
short-description: A Discord Bot that converts time between zones

---

__Summary__

Timebot is a discord bot written in Ruby that represents my first foray into the Open Source world

__Explanation__

Using the discord ruby API (discordrb), Timebot is a bot that converts time zones for players.  Discord was originally intended for gamers who often have trouble translating time zones when scheduling games.  This bot takes your input and translates it into an easy to read format.  You call the bot with simple command /timebot and the parameters of your conversion. For example if you called '/timebot 1600 +3 -4' you would get a return that mentions you specifically such as '@user 1600 UTC +3 is 900 UTC -4'

__Problems__

For a "simple" project this had a fair number of problems.  The first problem was the conversion itself.  My original intent was to use some sort of Time.now function to grab the users native time zone (assuming that most people would want to convert to their own time zones). However discord doesn't allow bots to mine user settings so any sort of conversion using Ruby's native time tools would do conversion from the server time, not the user time.  The biggest problem I encountered was that when I build my workspace on cloud9, I must have missed a setting and many of the tools and paths that rails projects come with automatically, were not there.  Missing things like the Gemfile and bin directory turned out to be a massive headache.  My final hurdle in getting Timebot online was getting Heroku to host the bot 24/7.

__Solutions__

Solving the time conversion problem wasn't that big of a deal. I just had create the logic from scratch then refine it over and over again to handle different circumstances.  I had never used the discord API before while it's well documented, of course I had questions.  I first posted on Discords reddit, and was quickly directed to the API server on discord itself where questions can be answered very quickly.  That helped a lot with implementing the discord specific problems.  Resolving the missing Gemfile and other problems generated by my workspace issue required me to just create a new workspace on cloud9 correctly and transfer my project there.  Finally the Heroku issues I solved by a lot of internet searching and asking questions.  Finally it came down to creating a Procfile (which I had never head of) and changing some dynos settings on Heroku itself (again, new to me).  Now that I've done it, it  almost seems to easy.  But wow, was it difficult to do the first time.

__Results__

IT'S ALIVE!!!  This was the first project that I created from scratch.  It was my idea, I implemented it step by step and now it's out there in the world for all to see and use!  It's crazy how proud you get over something so small and simple.  Hopefully this is a great first step towards a career of _building_ things
